# Social-Media-Analysis-for-Understanding-Customer-Preferences-and-Sentiments
# Case Study A:
Social Media Analysis for Understanding Customer Preferences and Sentiments by using NLP in R
We will work as a social marketing analyst in a consulting company to uncover the impacts of online advertising and communication with customers. The aim of the study is to educate the marketing teams of their clients (in diverse industries) to market their products and/or services on social media to maximise customers’ involvement (positive interest and sharing). The company is interested in finding out the relationship between the keywords, shares, sentiments and whether there is a relationship in different topic categories such as entertainment, technology, business, etc. that are of interest to different clients in various industries.

## Case Study B"
Here we  will be a data scientist working for a hotel review firm to develop a sentiment analytics engine for Twitter, which is used to predict consumers’ review sentiments. The aim is to develop both dictionary-based and machine learning-based
sentiment analytics scripts using a number of R libraries. We are required to use the developed engine to predict hotel reviewers’ sentiments and benchmark various algorithms and analytics tools.
## Applied Machine Learning on Hotel tweets data:
Now gain we have again imported the Hotel tweets.csv data by read_csv() in R studio. Its not required to again import but we have started the machine learning task in new phase, so we have imported again. Then we installed & loaded the packages required. In this task we have required to use the e1071 library to perform machine learning but we are using RTextTools package as this library also use the equivalent e1071 package which have included the e1071 library (we can see the documentation RTextTools package by R cran website).We have extracted the positive & negative tweet from the given data set and store it into two diverse data frame and these both data frame contain the first 200 tweet as training data set & 63 tweet as testing data set.Then combined positive & negative tweet of training data and positive & negative tweet testing tweet to get the train and test data correspondingly. We preprocessed with cleaning  the both test & train data like changed to the  lower cases, removed the stop word, strip the white spaces, removed the all punctuation, removed unwanted number, removed the all special character.After cleaning and prepossessing the train & test tweet data, transformed the hotel tweet data into Document term matrix and then applied the SVM-algorithm (Machine learning algorithm) on the training tweet data.


